.TH fsck.gfs2 8

.SH NAME
fsck.gfs2 - Offline GFS2 file system checker

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fsck.gfs2
[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIDEVICE\fR

.SH WARNING
All GFS2 nodes \fImust\fP have the GFS2 filesystem unmounted before running
fsck.gfs2.  Failure to unmount all nodes may result in filesystem corruption.

.SH DESCRIPTION
fsck.gfs2 will check that the GFS2 file system on a device is structurally valid.
It should not be run on a mounted file system.  If file system corruption is
detected, it will attempt to repair the file system.  There is a limit to what
fsck.gfs2 can do.  If important file system structures are destroyed, such that
the checker cannot determine what the repairs should be, reparations could
fail.

GFS2 is a journaled file system, and as such should be able to repair damage to
the file system on its own.  However, faulty hardware has the ability to write
incomplete blocks to a file system thereby causing corruption that GFS2 cannot
fix.  The first step to ensuring a healthy file system is the selection of
reliable hardware (i.e. storage systems that will write complete blocks - even
in the event of power failure).

Note: Most file system checkers will not check the file system if it is
"clean" (i.e. unmounted since the last use).  The fsck.gfs program behaves
differently because the storage may be shared among several nodes in a
cluster, and therefore problems may have been introduced on a different
computer.  Therefore, fsck.gfs2 will always check the file system unless
the -p (preen) option is used, in which case it follows special rules
(see below).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP
Same as the -p (preen) option.
.TP
\fB-f\fP
Force checking even if the file system seems clean.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Help.

This prints out the proper command line usage syntax.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Quiet.
.TP
\fB-n\fP
No to all questions.

By specifying this option, fsck.gfs2 will only show the changes that
would be made, but not make any changes to the filesystem.
.TP
\fB-p\fP
Preen (same as -a: automatically repair the file system if it is dirty,
and safe to do so, otherwise exit.)

Note: If the file system has locking protocol lock_nolock, the file system
is considered a non-shared storage device and the fsck is deemed safe.
However, fsck.gfs2 does not know whether it was called automatically
from the init process, due to options in the /etc/fstab file.  Therefore, if
the locking protocol is lock_dlm and -a or -p was specified, fsck.gfs2
cannot determine whether the disk is mounted by other nodes in the cluster.
Therefore, the fsck is deemed to be unsafe and a warning is given
if any damage or dirty journals are found.  In that case, the file system
should be unmounted from all nodes in the cluster and fsck.gfs2 should be
run manually without the -a or -p options.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Version.

Print out the program version information.
.TP
\fB-v\fP
Verbose operation.

Print more information while running.
.TP
\fB-y\fP
Yes to all questions.

By specifying this option, fsck.gfs2 will not prompt before making
changes.
