.TH gfs2_convert 8

.SH NAME
gfs2_convert - Convert a GFS1 filesystem to GFS2

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gfs2_convert
[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIDEVICE\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
gfs2_convert is used to convert a filesystem from GFS1 to GFS2. Do not
attempt to convert a GFS1 filesystem which is not clean - the process
of conversion will reinitialise the journals. We highly recommend that
.B fsck.gfs
is run successfully before attempting to convert a filesystem. Many
of the on-disk structures are identical between GFS1 and GFS2, so
the conversion process updates the journals, a few items of incompatible
metadata (mostly indirect pointers and inodes) and adds the per-node
directories required by the gfs2meta filesystem. The conversion process
is performed in-place and does not require any extra disk space so that
it is possible to successfully convert a GFS1 filesystem that is
completely full.

Always ensure you have a complete backup of the data on any filesystem
before starting the conversion process.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Help.

This prints out the proper command line usage syntax.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Quiet.  Print less information while running.
.TP
\fB-n\fP
No to all questions.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print program Version information only.

Print out the current version name.
.TP
\fB-v\fP
Verbose operation.

Print more information while running.
.TP
\fB-y\fP
Yes to all questions.

By specifying this option, gfs2_convert will not prompt before making
changes.

.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
gfs2_convert /dev/vg0/lvol0
This will convert the Global File System on the block device
"/dev/vg0/lvol0" to gfs2 format.
