.TH gfs2_lockcapture 8

.SH NAME
gfs2_lockcapture \- will capture locking information from GFS2 file systems and DLM.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gfs2_lockcapture \fR[-dqyt]  [-o \fIoutput directory]\fR [-r \fInumber of runs]\fR [-s \fIseconds to sleep]\fR [-n \fIname of GFS2 filesystem]\fP
.PP 
.B gfs2_lockcapture \fR[-dqyi]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIgfs2_lockcapture\fR is used to capture all the GFS2 lockdump data and
corresponding DLM data. The command can be configured to capture the data
multiple times and how much time to sleep between each iteration of capturing
the data. By default all of the mounted GFS2 filesystems will have their data
collected unless GFS2 filesystems are specified.
.PP
Please note that sysrq -t and -m events are trigger or the pid directories in /proc are 
collected on each iteration of capturing the data.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h,  --help\fP
Prints out a short usage message and exits.
.TP
\fB-d,  --debug\fP
enables debug logging.
.TP
\fB-q,  --quiet\fP
disables logging to console.
.TP
\fB-y,  --no_ask\fP
disables all questions and assumes yes.
.TP
\fB-i,  --info\fP
prints information about the mounted GFS2 file systems.
.TP
\fB-t,  --archive\fP
the output directory will be archived(tar) and compressed(.bz2).
.TP
\fB-o \fI<output directory>, \fB--path_to_output_dir\fR=\fI<output directory>\fP
the directory where all the collect data will stored.
.TP
\fB-r \fI<number of runs>,  \fB--num_of_runs\fR=\fI<number of runs>\fP
number of runs capturing the lockdump data.
.TP
\fB-s \fI<seconds to sleep>,  \fB--seconds_sleep\fR=\fI<seconds to sleep>\fP
number of seconds to sleep between runs of capturing the lockdump data.
.TP
\fB-n \fI<name of GFS2 filesystem>,  \fB--fs_name\fR=\fI<name of GFS2 filesystem>\fP
name of the GFS2 filesystem(s) that will have their lockdump data captured.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
