.TH gfs2_jadd 8

.SH NAME
gfs2_jadd - Add journals to a gfs2 filesystem

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gfs2_jadd
[\fIoptions\fR] <\fIdevice\fR|\fImountpoint\fR> ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgfs2_jadd\fP is used to add journals (and a few other per-node files) to a
gfs2 filesystem.  When this operation is complete, the journal index is updated
so that machines mounting the filesystem will see the newly created journals in
addition to the existing journals. Machines which are already running in the
cluster are unaffected.

\fBgfs2_jadd\fP must be run on a mounted filesystem. Adding journals to
unmounted filesystems is not supported. \fBgfs2_jadd\fP need only be run on one
node in the cluster; the added journals will be visible across the cluster.

\fBgfs2_jadd\fP must be run as root. \fBgfs2_jadd\fP only updates the journal
index at the end of the process if no error conditions are encountered,
otherwise the filesystem is left in its original state.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fImegabytes\fR
Initial size of each journal's quota change file
.TP
\fB-D\fP
Print out debugging information about the filesystem layout.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Prints out a short usage message and exits.
.TP
\fB-J\fP \fIsize\fR
The size of the new journals in megabytes. The defaults to 32MB (the minimum
size allowed is 8MB). If journals of different sizes are required,
\fBgfs2_jadd\fP will need to be run once for each different size of journal.
.TP
\fB-j\fP \fInumber\fR
The number of new journals to add.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Be quiet.  Don't print anything.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Version. Print version information, then exit.

.SH NOTES
The journals added by \fBgfs2_jadd\fP are not guaranteed to be laid out
contiguously as they are with \fBmkfs.gfs2(8)\fP. Therefore it may be
beneficial to performance to create the filesystem with the required number of
journals instead of adding journals later.

.SH SEE ALSO
mkfs.gfs2(8) gfs2_grow(8)
