.TH gfs2_grow 8

.SH NAME
gfs2_grow - Expand a GFS2 filesystem

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gfs2_grow
[\fIOPTION\fR]... <\fIDEVICE\fR|\fIMOUNTPOINT\fR>...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgfs2_grow\fP expands a GFS2 filesystem after the device upon which the
filesystem resides has also been expanded. \fBgfs2_grow\fP expands the GFS2
filesystem to utilize any unused space between the current end of the
filesystem and the end of the block device.  When this operation is complete,
the resource group index for the filesystem is updated so that all nodes in the
cluster can use the extra storage space that has been added.

See \fBlvmlockd(8)\fP for the procedure to extend and refresh the logical
volume prior to running \fBgfs2_grow\fP.

The \fIDEVICE\fR or \fIMOUNTPOINT\fR arguments must be paths to mounted
filesystems; expansion of unmounted filesystems is not supported.
\fBgfs2_grow\fP need only be run on one node in the cluster.  The other nodes
will see the expansion has occurred and automatically start to use the newly
available space.

\fBgfs2_grow\fP must be run as the superuser. When the filesystem cannot be
resized due to detected errors, \fBgfs2_grow\fP will leave the filesystem in a
consistent state.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-D\fP
Print out debugging information about the filesystem layout.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Prints out a short usage message and exits.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Be quiet.  Don't print anything.
.TP
\fB-K\fP
Do not attempt to discard the block device contents. Issuing discards to the
device allows some solid state devices and sparse or thin-provisioned storage
devices to optimise free space. Other devices may emulate this behaviour by
zeroing the device contents, which can be a slow process.
.TP
\fB-T\fP
Test. Do all calculations, but do not write any data to the disk and do not
expand the filesystem. This is used to discover what the tool would have done
were it run without this flag. This option can be used to display the current
state of a mounted GFS2 filesystem.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Version. Print out version information, then exit.

.SH NOTES

Shrinking GFS2 filesystems is currently unsupported.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.gfs2(8)
.BR gfs2_jadd(8)
.BR lvextend(8)
.BR lvmlockd(8)

